And we are live. What is up, Ivan Leo?
Hey, what's up, Hugo? Good to see you
after a long time. I think the last time
we met was like for the previous AI
assistant workshop. Yeah.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So, welcome everyone.
And Ivan and I actually recently did a
workshop on building your own open core.
Really, the the premise was to build
agents that build themselves and being
able to get them to build their own
extensions, hooks, and skills in real
time and hot reload, so you don't even
need to restart them, was so powerful.
Uh love to welcome you all to this
workshop on building your own uh deep
research agent. We're putting YouTube
that um the Q&A will happen in Discord.
Uh so, please do uh join the Discord in
the workshop's channel. And I'm actually
just going to put a link there to the
previous workshop we did. I've put the
GitHub repository there as well. Say hi,
introduce yourself. Uh and and let us
know what your interest in such things
is or are. Like, do you work in AI? Do
you work in ML or or or what's up? Um
Ivan, congratulations on your new job at
DeepMind.
Yeah, thanks so much, man. I'm really
excited to start on the team. I started
on Monday and it's been absolutely
incredible. I think everyone is so
friendly and I think, you know, I'm just
really hoping to spread the good word
about Gemini.
Absolutely. And uh on top of that, this
is pretty funny, but um last year I did
many workshops with a good friend of
mine, Ruven Kumar, at at DeepMind, um
who then was working a lot on Gemma. And
we actually put out 10 hours of free
workshops on building AI products with
Gemma. I'm going to link to that in the
Discord as well. What's funny is after I
did these, I was like, "Okay, I got to
like
diversify who I'm doing workshops with
at the moment." Um
and so, you among other people, but hey,
look, it's chill and you're all doing
such amazing work at at DeepMind as
well. Um
hey, everyone, uh
we'll get started in a minute or two,
but please do um hit like and subscribe,
share this with a friend who might be
interested. Right now, that's the best
way to support the channel. Uh we have
upcoming events as well. Check out Luma
in the description in
YouTube.
On top of that, I'd like to say a few
words of introduction to uh introduce
Ivan today. Ivan,
um we met when you were working with
Jason Liu, right?
>> Yeah. I think we met a long time ago
when I was working with Jason. Back
then, we were doing a lot of voice and
instructor. Yeah. Exactly. Uh and you
were also working on something super
cool called Cura, which we did some some
workshops on or lightning lessons and
that type of stuff that I'll also put a
a link to, but something I really
appreciate about your work on Cura
essentially like with agent traces, how
to how to like get signal from them. Um
and and Cura in terms of clustering and
having observability in this type of
stuff into agentic traces was super
powerful. It was it wasn't Jason who
introduced us though. It was Swyx from
Latent Space initially. I was like,
"Hey, Swyx, I'm going to Singapore.
Introduce me to some cool people." He
was like, "You've got to meet Ivan." You
took me out to hawker hawker markets and
we had skewers and I'm still I mean, we
got we got good I told you I'm going to
Chinatown in Sydney tonight. We got good
skewers here, but the food [laughter] in
Singapore was amazing. Then you were at
Manifold, which is super relevant to
what we're doing today. You were working
on Manifold agent. Um you built the
Manifold
Manifold mail as well, which I've I I
used a bunch of. And now you're at
DeepMind. Is there anything I've
I've missed out there? Yeah, no, I think
like that roughly covers a lot of open
source. I was at Manifold for a bit
building like some of the agents and
then now at DeepMind trying to spread
the good word on Gemini. Um but yeah, I
can't believe it's been so long. I feel
like I was working in open source maybe
like almost 2 years ago.
That's pretty wild, isn't it? So, I'm
just going to
share my screen to just show a slide or
two.
Just to um
give a sense of what we're up to
uh today to give people a little bit of
structure. And let me
sick.
Okay. So, we're going to have a brief
intro to deep research, what we're
building and why
and why. Then we're going to jump into
building. Um so, we're going to build
with Gemini, uh start with a raw API
call, then get some tools running and
getting a runtime up and running. Then
we're going to start adding state,
hooks, the agent loop. We'll see what
all of this stuff is. Then we're going
to let it loose with sub-agents,
planning, and observability. Um
a schematic of the type of thing we'll
build. This isn't quite it because uh
Gemini does something far cleverer than
what one can actually draw draw here,
but it's going to be a prompt.
The agent can ask clarifying questions
if if needed. I mean, the canonical
example is if you say, "Give me tell me
about restaurants in Chelsea."
Um the agent hopefully will say, "Do you
mean London or Manhattan?" Um planner
will write a research plan and then uh
the main agent will orchestrate
sub-agents. Now, something that's really
cool about what we're building today is
it's not just three sub-agents. It
spawns sub-agents that are needed,
manages context around them, returns
results, and then spins up more if
necessary. Uh and then the main agent
synthesizes a final report. So,
with respect to this the brief
architectural diagram, is there anything
you'd want to add or clarify, Ivan? Uh
yeah, I think um the only thing I'll add
is then instead of just like a single
run of like sub-agents, really what
we've done is we just um written a way
that the model can just spawn as many
sub-agents as it needs on demand.
And so, it can do this as much as it
needs. And so, it's kind of a thing you
can just tune in the prompt to see like
how many rounds of iteration you want to
do. Uh maybe you want the model to stop
and ask more questions before it spawns
more sub-agents.
And I think the goal today is just to
build like some sort of to sort of show
from scratch how you can do you can get
a lot out of these models. And
especially with something like Gemini
where you have
especially like Gemini 1.5 Flash and
Gemini 1.5 Pro Preview where you have
very good pricing, you have a model that
is actually has a very low latency.
And I think in general it's like pretty
good for agentic stuff.
So,
yeah.
So, I do want to first talk before we
dive in about why
deep research. And I want to preface it
by saying, as you know, um I work with a
lot of builders and I consult and advise
a lot of builders and teach
a lot of builders. And a lot of the
time, um what people really need are LLM
workflows, uh not you know, or and
agents embedded in workflows as well,
but not like fully fledged
uh agents.
And I'll actually link to Anthropic's
blog post on building effective AI
agents, which spells out the types of
workflows we're we're we're talking
about there. Then when we do get to
agents though, a lot of the time, um you
actually don't want something as massive
of as deep research. You want you want
customer service agent or travel
assistant or whatever it is, and you
want the time to resolution super quick,
one or two or three turns. You don't
actually have to actively manage any
context or anything anything like that
cuz there are a handful of retrieval
tool calls and that type of stuff. So,
I'm just wondering if you can talk a bit
about in particular in particular with
respect to your work at Manifold, um
about when deep research is important
and when building these types of agents
really comes into its own.
Yeah, I think um the most important
thing to sort of think about is like
what is the metric that matters the most
for your users. And so, for example, if
you're talking about like customer
service um support agents, really what
they want is something that can quickly
retrieve the relevant data, you know,
answer very quickly. And honestly, for
something that's just saying, "Hey, what
are your opening hours?" or "Hey, are
you guys open on Saturday, you know, at
like 6:00 p.m.?"
Um that's a single-turn sort of agent.
Um if you think a lot about, let's say,
a lot of the integrations, for example,
that have rolled out in, say, um your
email clients and even like some of the
other like applications, a lot of these
are like two or three steps. For
example, generate a quick like response
to me for this email based on our
previous conversations, right? And so,
what you want over here is think about
from the end user perspective. You don't
always need to throw like a really big
heavy model. I I know a lot of people,
for example, like to throw like Opus 4 6
at everything. But the simple truth is
if you have like a very well-defined
task, if you have good evaluations, like
I think what you cover in your course,
um
once you've verified that a model can
actually do the task, like the best
models like a GPT-5 and Opus 4 6 or a
Gemini 1.5 Pro Preview, um you can
actually start experimenting with your
evaluation set to start going down to
like cheaper models that can do it a lot
faster and cheaper. And ultimately, as
you start building a product that needs
to scale to thousands of users, hundreds
of thousands, and hopefully at some
point like millions of users,
that 20% 10% or even like 2% difference
in cost can add up very quickly. And so,
I think like a lot of these are quick
iterations. And I think like you want to
realize that you can tune basically
every single part of this pipeline.
Whether it's the model you're using, the
prompt, and also I think the most
important thing is the tools that you
give it. Um and I think we also
discussed a bit about this whereby
now these models are good enough whereby
you can basically meta do a lot of meta
prompting. So, when I was actually
building this um if you go to the
repository and you look at, say, step
eight to step nine, you notice that the
prompt got a lot bigger. Um they got a
lot more detail.
And actually, a lot of it was me just
asking Gemini, "Hey, um here are some
examples of writing I like. You try to
do a simple bit of a rewrite." And then
I would basically say, "Hey, um based on
the initial information that you
understood,
the final result that I wanted, how
could we better make it clearer to you?
Right? How could we make our
instructions clearer? How could we
provide better examples?" And then
Gemini actually gave some great
examples. And so, you can start to see
that a lot of these techniques that
wouldn't have been possible a year or
two ago are really valuable now.
You can do things like ask models, "Hey,
how should we describe tools? What sort
of tools do you need?
What are the descriptions of tools that
you want? And how like what sort of
information are you not getting in your
system prompt or in the context that we
have?"
And I think that sort of calls back to
this idea of like context management. Um
it's okay to be a bit less careful, I
think, sometimes with your context. It
can be a little bit dirty whereby you
can just throw the raw context in
without cleaning it with a very long
pipeline. But, it's very important to
think about like the type of context
you're providing.
Um I think we talked about this in
context versus capabilities where if you
ask the model, "Hey, what's the date
today?" And it doesn't have a either the
date in the prompt or a bash tool to run
it on your local computer, um it can
never really answer the question to you,
right? That's like a capability. A
capability is a tool it can execute to
get the date. And a context would be,
well, the date is in the prompt. And so,
I think like that's a lot of stuff that
you should think about when building
agents. Like, what is the use case you
care about? What is the metric you want
to push? Start to think a lot about
evaluations from day one. And then
realizing that for a lot of these cases,
um
you want to start There are a lot of
these different knobs that you can turn
and at the end of the day having a clear
north star is really important.
Totally. And one thing I do want to
index on, there was so much wonderful
stuff in there. One thing is you
mentioned, when building something,
try it first with the best model to just
see if it's something you can do, right?
And then you can go to cheaper, lower
latency, uh what whatever it may be. And
it's interesting that that's kind of the
inverse or the opposite of what we do
classically in machine learning where,
you know, let's say you've got binary
classification, maybe you start with a
baseline of multi-class classifier or
sorry, of majority majority classifier.
Um
and so, you start with kind of the
silliest, dumbest idea and then that's
your baseline. And we've kind of flipped
it cuz we've got these powerful
pre-trained models that we can use.
Yeah, I think like that's a funny thing
about like working with agents nowadays
is that a lot of people
try to apply those same concepts. Um
really what you want to really
investigate when it comes to building
agents is whether or not this task is
possible for a language model to create
or to operate. And I think like often
times you can do a lot less prompting
when you use a really powerful model
like Gemini 3.1 for preview. Um and so,
I think a lot of it is just verifying
that the task can be done.
And then afterwards optimizing it for a
production use case. I think a lot of
people start by thinking about the cost
like, "Oh my god, like um Gemini 3.4
preview is like so much more expensive
than flash or like, I want to use Opus."
And it's like
X number of dollars like Opus cost. But,
when you're actually building a
prototype or you're trying to show that
your product works, you should get it
right first and then you should get it
then you should make it like optimize
after that, you know?
Totally. And also, so let's let's jump
in a second, but if it if the models
don't seem capable today, that doesn't
mean they won't be tomorrow. So, dream
big. And I'm actually going to link to a
podcast and I did a blog post with
Nicholas Moy who he was head of AI
research at Windsurf. So, now at
DeepMind working on anti-gravity among
other things in a different part of part
of DeepMind today. Yourself, but you
know, he built at Windsurf the first
multi-hop agent. Um and what they were
trying to do just wasn't possible. Like,
they they couldn't do it, but they knew
what they wanted. So, they were doing
something else in the meantime. Then a
particular um release of Claude came out
and they saw one day that it that it
worked. And then they just and they saw
it shoot off. They see the saw all of
their users going absolutely mad. Um so,
you know, dream big and let let your
models and agents fly.
Yeah, for sure. I think a lot of times
they say, you know, spend today for the
models of tomorrow.
So, like back then, let's say back in
the day when this was like a while back,
so I'm exposing how long I've been in
like the LLM space, but back then when
you use like GPT 3.5 versus GPT 4, you
know, a lot of people were saying like,
"Oh, GPT 4 is really expensive at this
cost." And they they kept trying to make
things work in GPT 3.5, but if you spend
money for the models of tomorrow, you
just want to use the best models to make
sure it's possible to to make sure this
specific very hard case is being catered
for.
Um often times you can find very
surprising results and then when the
model prices drop again, then it's
beautiful.
Exactly. Yeah. So, let's let's jump in,
man. Do you want to share your screen?
I've linked to the GitHub repository. Um
please do introduce introduce yourself
in Discord, say what's up if you if
you'd like to. Uh links in the chat and
in the YouTube description. On top of
that, if you're going to code, feel free
to code along if if you want. I would
encourage you to pay more attention to
what we're building and the
conversation. Like, don't don't get
stuck on trying to get an API key
working and fall behind. You can always,
you know, run the code after the fact.
So, um
Yeah.
>> go.
Yeah, I think we can start coding. Um
Can you just zoom in
a little bit
as well? a little bit so you can see. Um
I've zoomed in a little bit here. Let me
just pull this down so everyone can take
a look at the code. Um
maybe this is enough or maybe like one
more.
>> Yeah, that's Well, one more would be
great. And if you want to actually also
just open the read me to start. Dude,
when I dictate, because I dictate most
of my stuff to LLMs now, like most
speech-to-text cuz of my accent say read
me. Uh
A I D M E.
So, there you go.
Funny things with accents, yeah. Yeah.
I I think it happens, yeah. I I just
pray that the language model gods can
understand what I say and they just just
got everything.
AJ.
>> [laughter]
>> That's it. All right, so what what are
we doing, man? Right, so today we're
going to be building a deep research
agent. I think previously Hugo talked a
bit about the different steps. So, I
think the way that we're going to try
running it today is we're going to have
these four distinct steps. Uh the first
one is just Hello Gemini where we go
from a raw API call to a tool runtime.
And really what a tool runtime is over
here is just that it's a simple class
where we can execute tools um very
easily without hardcoding a lot of it.
Um it'll make a bit more sense down the
line. And I think the point of the first
section is really to kind of point out
like why you need tool calling, right?
Um and then the next part we're going to
be talking about is like we're going to
be introducing like state, hooks, and
then agent loop. And this is going to be
corresponding to four, five, six, and
seven where we have like sub agents for
the first time.
Um And then sorry, let me go back. So,
it'll be four, five, and six. So, this
would be um it's alive.
This will be Hello Gemini
where we talk a bit about raw API call
to tool runtime.
And then this part over here will be
it's alive where we introduce state,
hooks, and the agent loop.
Um and then the last the last part will
just be letting it loose
with sub agents, planning,
and observability.
Yeah. So, this this will roughly be the
structure of the workshop today.
Um at each step, we're going to just do
a quick walk-through on like what we've
done. Um and if you have any questions,
we're just going to I think basically
talk about it at the end of the steps. I
think that's
kind of how I was thinking about it. So,
that we would have distinct sections and
then we can do a quick recap at each
point. Um and that's
probably sorry.
>> That That sounds great. Feel free to say
no. I'm just wondering, would it be
would it be crazy to just show the trace
you sent me the other day in log fire so
we can see
>> trace. Yeah,
this is over here. So,
um let me just keep a bunch of these
things, right? So, what we have over
here is a single agent that is, you
know, it first, you know, uh what I did
is I sent a a agent.turn, what I had is
I sent a message, right? So, you see an
agent.run where
you have like the tools, you have like
the request config. And then I said,
"Hey, I'd love to learn about Apple
AirPods, right?" And the agent responded
over here saying that
um we look at the bottom of the
response. Let's see what the agent
responded with.
"I'll be happy to help you learn about
Apple AirPods, but there's a lot of
information out there. I would love to
narrow down what would be most useful
for you."
And so, what happened is that I
basically just responded. Um
and if you look at the message, I said,
"Yeah, I'd like a comparison between the
different models and the evolution of
the product. Look for whatever is
relevant." Um you notice that my my
spelling is really horrible and that's
because I do a lot of dictation
nowadays.
And [snorts] basically what happened is
just that the agent generated a plan.
And so, what does it mean to generate a
plan is that the model basically said,
"Okay, like I have understood what the
user wants. So, let me now generate a
bunch of to-dos that I want to execute."
So, let's expand this over here.
Uh and you can see that with this the
the model has sort of taken an initial
look at my query, which is that, "Can
you give me a breakdown of the history
and the the rough evolution of the Apple
AirPods?" And it's broken it down into
these distinct sections where it's
researching the history and evolution of
Apple AirPods, generating a technical
specification and feature sets,
comparing the current models across
different key metrics.
And what it did first is that it first
created a bunch of to-dos. Um
we
And once you have these like to-dos, it
looked at it again. It then decided,
"Okay, like
it's time for us to start searching and
understanding." And the way it does it
over here is that
it basically dispatches a bunch of sub
agents. So, let's expand this a little
bit cuz it doesn't look so good.
Um and so, what these sub agents are
basically doing is that
let me scroll down.
Then you can see what it's done
um tool call.
Um so, basically the model created a
tool call
over here and it wrote a bunch of
queries that it wanted to answer. So,
"What did the first generation Apple
when did the first generation Apple
AirPods launch? How did the standard
Apple AirPods evolve through generation
two and three? And what was the initial
cultural impact and the state and the
status of the Apple AirPods shortly
after their release?"
So, what actually happened is that we
actually dispatched three sub agents
that each were meant to answer one of
these questions. And you can see that
each of them essentially they called the
web. They called a search web tool. Then
they generated a response. Some of them
went through a few different um searches
and so they would search given a search
tool. For example,
they would just ask for
Let's see. So the query over here is how
did the standard AirPods go and then you
would get some sort of response.
And so you can see the whole thing in
the trace. I think you can slowly dig
through it and understand. And then what
you will find is that the next agent.run
when the model actually looked at the
response, this was um
basically the response
that we had
uh
from delegate search and so you can see
in the results
you can see that let me just scroll this
up a little bit. Is it possible to see
what I'm looking at on the screen, Hugo?
Or is this too
Yep, I can see it. Yep. So for example,
um the initial question was what did the
first when the first when did the first
generation Apple AirPods launch and what
were the key technical innovations?
And it basically said that the first
generation AirPods were officially
announced in September 7th, 2016
alongside the iPhone 7.
I talked a bit about the key
technological innovations and provided
citations and all the citations are
basically listed at the bottom.
Now
why is this really useful is because at
each step of the sub agents search web
we actually look at the code um what you
find is that
um let me just pull this up over here.
Let's go to open telemetry.
And you have the search tool. Um
I believe it's over here in Exa.
>> [clears throat]
>> Probably here, Exa.
Yeah, so
>> For those who haven't played with Exa
before, it's an API among other things
that you know, helps you search
essentially. If you've heard of Tavily
or these types of things it's all those
lines. Yeah, so I think in this case we
chose to use Exa because I think a lot
of people might not want to use Gemini
or you might want to use like Exa on it
or you might want to use like OpenAI
GPT-5 and so I thought it'd be a bit
better to show like a more general
example rather than tying it to the
search web that comes out of the box
with Gemini.
Um
so it it actually
>> That's actually a good point. Like a lot
of people don't know that you can that
the Gemini API has a ground in search
functionality as well. So you can do
that. But I actually yeah, you and I
discussed this. Using something like Exa
allows you to change your code to
another model, whatever it may be. And
Exa has a generous free tier as well. So
I use it a lot when I when I teach.
Yeah, so I think that's why I made the
decision here to use Exa, but honestly
out of the box like the Gemini API does
come with support for grounding with the
Google Search API. So you're using the
same index that you do when you search
on Google.
And at the same time you can do things
like search with Google Maps, which
means you can answer queries like um I'm
currently in this specific neighborhood,
what are some of the best coffee shops
around? And you actually get that pretty
like solid um
response grounded in the actual data
that sells the same Google Maps website
that I use all the time. So
yeah, highly recommend trying these two
out, but in this case we just use Exa.
Um and so you can see immediately that
at each
step where we call the search web tool,
we're actually getting back a lot of
data because for every single uh result
that we get back we're reading 4,000
different characters.
And we format it into this format over
here. Uh let me see if I can find an
example of it.
Um of what the model actually sees. Um
you should be receiving it get the
search web.
Um search the web
and then the response will be
I believe the response will be here in
the runner.
>> [clears throat]
>> Oh, it was scrubbed due to cookie.
Sorry, log file scrubbed it.
Um but you can see actually another
thing that I wanted to point out is that
actually the sub agents are limited in
the number of iterations that they can
run. And so we add this little message
at the end when they actually like reach
that limit. And this ensures that the
sub agents can only run for a fixed
amount of time.
So this is kind of like a cool hack that
we can say like oh, I want you to do at
most like two hops.
Um but we'll cover it in the next and
the next portion. Um but basically the
way to understand is that if you use
like Exa for example to do these like
queries, you can imagine that this is a
lot of data for your model to sieve
through.
And if you have say like sub agents that
can run for very long
to answer these natural language
queries, the amount of data that you
actually might have to go through is a
lot of irrelevant data relative to the
relevant data that you want. And so
using something like sub agent is
actually really common and a really uh
useful method for you to make sense of
that. Um and so yeah, that's kind of
what's happening inside here.
And the end of everything once we're
done, uh you can see every single trace.
You can just expand it.
Uh we basically wrote a report.
And so the same report that was written
by this trace is actually in the
repository over here. So you see it up
here in AirPods room.
Report, sorry. And so um
it has a title, it has a short executive
summary and it says hey, when Apple on
ceremoniously killed the headphone jack.
>> That's hilarious. Yeah. And the best
part about it is that you get all these
citations over here like um these are
referencing basically these websites at
the bottom. Um you could probably
improve it by having the URLs added too.
I think that's a prompt thing you can
add, but
this is essentially what was state of
the art in 2025, I would say, when like
OpenAI launched like deep research and
everything came out and people are like
oh, how do you do it, right? Cuz
back then you probably had to ask for a
lot of stuff.
And now you can see that model like
Gemini 3.0 preview it honestly is just
like if we count the code here that I've
written
this is
500 lines of code. This is roughly 200,
700.
700, 800 and tools are going to be tool
tool was a bit long. Tool was like maybe
like 600. It was like 1,500 lines of
code.
But this is like a pretty robust like
code
like repository that has like sub agent
support. Um you have like basically
to-dos that can be tracked. You have the
ability to set the maximum number of
iterations. You can swap out and swap in
like the different like tools depending
on which stage of the entire like plan
you're at. And you can imagine for this
amount of like functionality that we're
building in, this is actually like quite
it's like not that much code if you
think about it.
Totally small. And so
Yeah. And just to remind everyone what
we've just shown you is what we're
moving towards. That's what we're we're
going to be building in in this
workshop. To Ivan's point as well, we
hand wrote a lot of these things now
today, but you know, incoming
APIs like we'll hopefully we'll have
time to talk about the Gemini
Interactions API which is currently in
beta and I'll link to that in the
Discord as as well. Um you know,
abstracting away a a lot of the things
that we want to do. And the ability for
Gemini to do deeper search itself and
provide all the traces to to you is
getting increasingly powerful. Um can we
just go back to the read me just and
just remind everyone what we're doing
for those just joining now and then we
can jump in. So hello Gemini and then
we'll start with a minimal call, add a
tool call, add a runtime and then we'll
start adding state hooks and agent loops
and then we're going to let it loose
with sub agents planning and
observability.
Sounds pretty good. Yeah, so I think uh
Hugo is right. The Interactions API is
currently in beta. Um but it is
something we're moving slowly towards um
because we want to make it easier and
more productive for people to build on
Gemini and so we're trying to take away
some of the lessons that we had um
serving Gemini making it available to
everybody and trying to make it a better
developer experience for people that
want to just build on Gemini. Yeah. Um
yeah, so let's get started. Um
one of the small changes is that there's
actually another section I added called
no tools which I hope makes it a bit
clearer cuz I realize not everyone has
heard of like tool calling
and like what is a tool for a model? Um
so let's take a look at it, right?
So
the easiest way to get started using um
Google Gemini models is by going to AI
Studio
and you'll find it if you just search it
in Google. Um you can get a free API
key. We have a pretty generous free tier
and that gives you a good amount of like
RP request per minute to work with. And
so traditionally the method um to do a
lot of this inference has been the
generate content method. So let's see
what happens when you run it. Right? So
let's go to agent. Let's go to agent.py.
And we want this model to be this
readme.md, right? Let's run this code.
Give it a while and
it should come back relatively fast,
right? So we told Gemini, hey, please
read the readme file. And Gemini says,
hey, I'm happy to read it, but you
haven't provided the file or the content
yet, right? Uh please do one of the
following so I can help you.
So before we had something like tool
calling, what we would essentially do is
let's say we have this response from
Gemini.
Then we would say, hey, um
I want you to output
the file name
that you want to read in a maybe an Exa
maybe in a JSON um tag, right?
So you might say you
dash
like read file
and then you would say file name equals
something like this and slash read file.
Right?
And so this becomes very funky down the
line because parsing this is very
difficult. Uh what if the model say adds
a space over here? Or let's say you have
like a Chinese characters over here
instead of like an English character. Or
if it's only output something like
Unicode.
And so one of the ways that we
got around this was by using what's
called tool calling, right?
And so what is tool calling? Basically
uh what it means is that the model is
going to output a fixed
um sort of
Oh wow, that was really fast.
Um so what happens is instead of the
model outputting this very long response
that we saw earlier
um which was I'll be happy to help you,
you know, like please give me the
readme, please provide it. Um what the
model outputs now is basically just
going to be this, right?
>> [clears throat]
>> I'm just going to put this on top over
here so there it's easy to see. So this
is the output
that we get now.
Right? And so compare compare this to
the output that we got previously where
it was I um I'll be happy to help you.
You know, please provide
the file name that you want.
Read or read all the content.
So,
what's the difference between the first
one and the second one, right? The first
one is that you know that the model will
always output some sort of valid um
JSON string and then you can parse it
using a JSON library.
If you know from your JSON, it's
basically a way for you to do these like
object uh keys. So, for example, path
it would basically read the string. Um
you can have like nested JSON. So, like
for example, like working directory
would be like this directory and then
path might be
say readme.md.
Right?
Um and so, this is just a way for you to
represent data in a way that you can
read reliably. And if you use any sort
of um online websites, say for example,
like Facebook, you've logged into like
Hacker News, and you have like a
username and password, then basically
what you do is you might be sending
something like username is Ivan Leo.
And then the password
is going to be password, right?
Just a very simple example, when you
have like a online login form, uh you
might just take the values from that
like online login form, put it into a
string
that looks something like this. And then
when you parse it, you get like this
object that you can then say, let's say
you want
the response.username,
then this would just give you say Ivan
Leo as a string, right?
And then response.password would just
give you in this case like password.
Uh and this is really useful because
what this means is that we can now
connect a model from say whatever it
thinks, whatever it wants to do, to the
rest of the world. Uh I'm sure you've
seen a lot of things like Cloud Code,
you've seen a lot of things like
Co-work, or even like um some of the
newer demos, we have these like
incredible agents that are just doing
great work. And the way that they're all
doing this is through tool calling
because that's the way that you can
reliably expect your model to ask you to
help them do some things and you can
execute some logic and give it back the
context it needs. And this sort of takes
it away from being like a simple chatbot
where you say, "Hey, uh what's the
capital of France?" And it says like
Paris to "Can you read like what's the
authentication logic in this library?"
And it will actually use commands and
and tools like a bash tool, it will run
commands, it will run tests, it will
write scripts.
And all this is done by using tool
calling.
And Ivan, I'm actually just going to
show one thing very quickly for those
who haven't done a lot of this before.
Um and you've made this clear, but just
to really double down on on this. Um
what happens is and this is a wonderful
figure from from Google actually. Um
what we see is that uh you send a prompt
and it will either, you know, give you
text with a response completion
endpoint, or it will give you text still
cuz it's text out but with the function
name and argument, right? Now, when that
happens, when you're hand rolling these
things, you then need to parse that,
execute the tool, um let's say it's the
get weather API for example. It gives
you the function name argument, you need
to execute the function, then send the
result back to the LLM, and it will then
hopefully give you a final answer. So,
you're doing two two calls to the LLM
there. One where it gives the result of
the tool call, the other where it gives
you the completion. Now, what we're
going to see is that um these things
become very powerful when
the LLM or agent will loop over to
over tool calls, right? Um on top of
that, this is a good way to introduce be
introduced to it and cuz it is a bit
funky in in all honesty. Uh it's not
always easy to grok until you see it in
action. Um but in the end, there are
SDKs uh from the Frontier Lab providers
that that that we all use to build
agents on top of these APIs as well.
Mhm.
For sure. Yeah, I think like that's uh
probably like a good way to put it and
honestly, I think it was a great
diagram.
Um so, yeah, that's kind of what happens
like under the hood like for a lot of
these things. And so, with the GenAI
SDK, you can do it by using a
types.tool. And then you add it inside
function decorations. And it's a bit
convoluted, but basically what you need
to do is just add name equals default,
description is what the specific tool
do. And then you have parameters which
is basically you telling the model,
"Hey, I have these specific values I'd
like you to provide." And you can see
that you have a type and a description
for each of them. Um often times a lot
uh a lot of people think about like what
is the right tool, how should I name it,
how should I,
you know, write the descriptions. And
going back to what we talked about meta
prompting, I feel like that's actually a
really powerful tool.
So, that's basically what happens with a
tool call. And in Gemini, I'm just going
back up a little bit, the GenAI SDK, uh
you notice that we have this thing
called a part. And the way to know
whether something is a tool call is
basically by checking whether or not you
have this function call parameter photo.
So, you can see that you have arguments
over here, which is path readme.md when
we ask it, "Hey, can you please read the
readme.md file?"
And then you have the name over here
that we specified. So, this is how to
define a tool and how we call a tool.
So, let's um go into the next portion
where we're going to basically
take this and run it in a single loop.
So, let's run this for now. And let's
see what happens. So, the model says,
"Hey, I want We told the model, 'Hey,
can you help me read the readme.md
file?'"
It then gets the information from the
readme.md file and now it can actually
say, "Hey, the readme.md file describes
a 10-step workshop for building a deep
research agent from scratch using the
Gemini API. And as sequence of folders
and steps where each step introduces a
new concept."
So, what is the difference between the
code we wrote before and the new code?
Well, it's a lot longer. But
we've actually added this new thing
called a handler, right? And so, now we
can actually handle a lot of the logic
that we're doing when a tool is called.
So, this file definition hasn't really
changed. Um
and all that's changed is that
if we see function calls,
what we want to do is we want to just
basically execute the function call by
using call.args.get.
I recall if we scroll up over here that
you know, if the model decides to call a
function, you will see that we see args,
you're going to get this args value and
that's going to be the function call
that we have, right? Remember what we
talked about previously where with tool
calling, you can get very predictable
like uh objects and strings that you can
parse and execute some logic and this is
kind of what we're doing.
So, with that,
we were then able to read the actual
file. And in the Google GenAI SDK, the
way that you get the content back is you
use this
types.part.from_function_response
method that you basically just
provide the name of the function call
and you have a response over here.
And what this allows the model to do is
that
you tell the model, "Hey, for this path,
what was the content?"
And then we then generated a follow-up.
So, going back to what we talked about
just now, I think Hugo, you were showing
the nice diagram uh where you had the
initial completion function call, then
you run into the completion and the
model generates a response. Um that's
sort of what's happening over here where
the model was able to make a tool call
asking for more information.
And then once the tool call was
executed, it then came back and it was
like, "Okay." Right?
Um so, the next step I'm going to do,
we're going to make it a bit more
general uh cuz you can imagine that
this isn't a very nice way to add new
tools. So, um to get around that, we're
going to be introducing a simple tool
runtime. All right, so let me just
create a tools.py file.
And
this would just simplify the process of
working with a agent's tools a lot more.
Okay, let's So, what a tool runtime is
that it just makes it a bit easier for
us to define tools. So, a lot of the
initial complexity around what we had
previously with defining and using the
types.tool, making sure we're using the
right definitions from the GenAI SDK,
are sort of going to be handled by this
tool object that we create.
Um what I'm using over here is just a
simple data class um with slots equals
to true. And what this means in Python
is that uh it ensures that the values in
the data class only only have
they're only going to contain these four
values. So, we have a name, a
description, an args model, and a
handler.
We then basically define a tool called
tool_genai_tool. Uh this is a function,
sorry.
That will basically take this size
Pydantic model and then convert it to
JSON schema.
It then passes it into a types.tool
where you have the function decorations.
Um
and you basically massage it into the
right format.
And this is going to make it a lot
easier for us to define what was
originally um a very complicated, very
lengthy piece of code.
Uh you might say, "Hey, the previous
code was a lot easier because I had
everything there at one go, right? I
could easily go in and change
the tool." But the reason why you want
to think a lot about the ergonomics of
your code is that at some point, you're
going to have a coding agent that's
going to be writing some of this code.
Um maybe you want the agent to be able
to write the tool code. And making it
easy and
abstracting away a lot of these small
problems is is often quite useful.
And so, what the tool
this new tools.py does is that it makes
it very easy for us to define new tools.
So, you can see here the read file tool
becomes has a name of read file, it has
a description over here.
These are the arg This is the arg
and then this is the handler. Right? And
then in agent.py, we just basically now
make it such that instead of us
hardcoding the logic around how we read
the file, uh we just initialize it with
a list of tools.
Um when we need to actually make a call
to the model, we actually provide a list
of tools by calling the tool gen AI tool
that we previously defined.
And then when we define when we execute
the tool call, if
uh we just basically make sure that we
validate the arguments passed in,
execute the handler, and then we just
return name and response.
So, a lot of this basically is very
similar to what we had before. And
what we're going to be doing over here
is just that
um
it's just a runtime to execute the call.
So, let's verify that this is the same
thing that we did.
Ivan, it may be worth
cuz we're talking about coding agents,
talking about So, I've just linked to
the previous workshop we did on building
coding agents, building agents that
build build themselves as as well. And
people have probably heard of Open Claw,
definitely check that out. But check out
Pi, and I'll link to a few things about
Pi, which is a coding agent with four
tools, read, write, edit, and and bash,
which is incredibly powerful. I The
reason I mentioned this is because Ivan,
I said before when we're planning to do
some workshops, I said to you, "Should
we do a workshop building an agent that
isn't a coding agent?" And you said,
"Hugo, isn't every agent a coding
agent?"
And I I think there's something
something in there. So, I I I do wonder
if you could just speak to like the
general purpose nature of what coding
agents are and and the utility of coding
agents more generally.
Yeah, I think um at this point
a lot of useful general purpose agents
end up being coding agents because what
you'll find is that actually a lot of
the agents um models that you're using
have memorized so much of the internet
that they're actually very useful.
And because of that, they can basically
do things like regurgitate URLs or like
APIs uh hosted. Like if you ask some of
the models, for example, Gemini, "Hey,
can you help me find like the Pokémon
API?" Uh instead of going to the web, it
actually has it memorized.
Um and so what you find is that for a
lot of the general purpose work that
you're doing, whether it's um doing some
research, doing prospecting,
or let's say even writing a document or
writing code, a lot of models are
actually trained in a way that they can
actually understand and they have enough
context that they can do it, right? And
code allows them to create the
visualizations, run the numbers, and try
to figure out whether or not this is
actually um
like to achieve the goal that they have.
And so,
I think a lot of these general purpose
agents have to be coding agents, but
they often will do a bit more, yeah.
Exactly. And I'll just add on top of
that, I've linked to a blog post I wrote
that you you you [clears throat] helped
me with, Ivan. You gave wonderful
feedback on it and inspired a lot of it.
How to build a general purpose AI agent
in 131 lines of Python. Build a basic
coding agent there and a search agent.
And a demo I do is showing how a coding
agent allows you to just um for example,
clean your desktop or sort files, uh or
um you know, take all of your music
library and add metadata at scale. And
and these types of things. And these are
things that sometimes technical people
would write scripts for. But the reason
I want to make this clear is that if
your agent can write code, it then
becomes a general purpose computer use
agent that can do And and like it isn't
just about building software, it's about
using computers. And I think
when you internalize that, what that
means with respect to what you can do
with coding agents, I think I still
haven't quite fig- figured it out. I
think there's And that's why Open Claw
is so important. That's why Co-work and
now Computer Use with Anthropic and
Perplexity is doing what they're doing.
Like everyone's fast following on Open
Claw, which Co-work was kind of gave
gave the promise of, I think. And of
course, Manners
before that was kind of OG with this
this type of stuff. Um and I think
that's really That doesn't mean when
you're building a search engine, you
want to build a coding agent though. So,
I want to be very clear about that,
right? Um but yeah, that's a bit of
context to around kind of how to think
about coding agents as general uh
general use computer use agents. Yeah, I
think um a lot of times when building
agents, it's like I think the coding
capabilities are the easiest to provide
because it just comes out of the box for
a lot of these models. They can write
like really good bash commands, can
write good scripts. And it's sort of
like if you see problems with your
model, like if the model struggles to
provision a
specific database or you know, like gets
to certain steps,
then maybe you you introduce like a
tool, a new tool to sort of like
circumvent some of that. And I think at
the end of the day, a lot of it is about
being very thoughtful about your design
um and looking at what the agent uh like
where the agent like messes up.
And going back to like what we talked
about at the start, like using a lot of
techniques like meta prompting, looking
at traces, making sure you have open
telemetry set up. I think those are
quite important to call out, yeah.
Awesome.
Let's keep going.
Yeah, let's keep let's keep it going.
So,
I think the next step we're going to
start looking at context. So,
um previously
we had a agent that was going to run.
And so, we showed basically how we could
go from a simple uh prompt where the
agent responded in free text and then we
made it very difficult to productionize
it. And then we looked at like tool
calling and how we could simplify the
definition of basically writing
and how we could simplify a lot of the
code around like getting the tools in
the right definition so they can be used
with the Google gen AI SDK.
The next portion what we're going to be
talking about is we're going to be
building a simple agent. But we're going
to be doing it in a few different ways.
The first thing we're going to be doing
is introducing the concept of state. Um
a really common thing that you have is
you might have uh max iterations.
You don't want an agent to keep going
forever uh because it's really expensive
at some point.
But you might also want the agent to
track to-do's, right? And so, the way
that you can do that is by having a
state variable.
So, what we've done over here is we just
added this thing called run state.
And what run state allows you to track
is that um it's just a collection of
information, some data that you pass
around while your agent is running.
Now, what could be some other
information, bits of information, or
things that you care about here? Well,
it could be as you see later, it could
be the phase that you're in, right? In
the deep research agent that we built,
we had a plan phase and then an execute
phase.
Like it could be an iteration count.
And it could also be a user
configuration.
Right? Think if you're building like
cloud code, then what you want to make
sure you do is you respect like user
permissions, right? If the user says
like, "Hey, do not go into my downloads
folder, do not go into my documents, or
I want you to always ask before you
write up do any scripts."
Um storing in some sort of state
variable that you can carry around is
often quite easy. And so, here I've just
chosen to basically make it um a single
data class that you can throw around.
So, to-do's over here would just be a
list string. Um it would just be a
default factory list. And iteration
count always starts from zero.
And in terms of the tools, uh we need to
introduce a new tool. And what we'll
introduce is a modified to-do tool.
This allows the model to add or remove
different to-do's from the current run
state. And when we look at our agent
later for the first time, uh you'll
notice that it's now able to track and
show its to-do's.
Notice that um for us to be able to add
a new tool, all we need to do is add
this definition,
add a new Pydantic model that shows like
what are the different uh classes that
it has.
And then we just define a handler which
will take in these arguments.
So, if let's say args.action is add,
we'll add it to to-do's.
And then we just tell the model over
here to-do's updated to this specific
result. And I'm just using a simple bit
of like XML over here.
Same thing for remove, um we're just
going to throw in throw an error at each
point if some sort of invariant is not
basically caught.
And then we're just going to essentially
just like return a result, which is what
is the latest set of to-do's.
So, one of the common things that you
might be thinking about is, "Yo, if I
have to-do's, what if I throw it in the
system prompt?"
Right? So, I have maybe my system prompt
and I have all the messages below.
But the problem you do something like
this is that you're going to break your
system your cache every single time.
And I just want to call out also that
like when you're building an agent, you
should be thinking about a few things
from the start.
And caching is something that's
incredibly important.
Sorry, I've been talking for quite a
bit. So, Ivan, just we've got a great
question from Vinod who's actually in
the course at at at the moment. Um and
Vinod asks if the main frontier model
providers, Anthropic, Gemini of course,
Open AI are quite unquote fast
forwarding their agent workflows, what
is the benefit to create our own? Isn't
it better for us simply to enjoy what
they've created? They are the experts
after all. He also says, "Thank you so
much for a wonderful session." I would
love your thoughts on that. I do want to
just front load it by saying we had uh
Sebastian Raschka, as you know, came and
chat chat with the course the other day.
Um and we asked him the same question
about LLM internals. Um and one reason,
you know, we want to know about LLM
internals is understanding what's
happening under the hood. It does impact
how you build as well, but also the joy
of things. There are so many people who
want to know about the internals of cars
cuz they drive cars and want to know
about them who don't necessarily build
cars is is one answer. I also do think
um
understanding
>> [clears throat]
>> how how to hand roll agents at the
moment and how to put observability into
our agentic systems is important because
the provider SDKs, I do agree that in
the future most of us will use
interactions APIs and SDKs and all of
this this type of thing. Um
but building it allows us um
to understand it and adopt
the frameworks and SDKs once we know
what we're building.
Yeah, I think so. I think at the end of
the day, like a lot of this comes down
to the fact that um
the models are going to get more
capable. Um model providers will make it
easier um because I think that's in
everyone's uh interest.
And so, I think like
a lot of times what will happen is just
that um a lot of the current call logic
or like flimsiness of these models um
will be solved, right? Like when we look
at GPT-3.5, its in-context learning was
not as strong as even like the Gemini 3
flash today.
And back then GPT-3.5 had a context
window of like 8K versus like Gemini's 1
million context window.
And so, I think a lot of times what will
end up happening is that model providers
will innovate on their on their APIs.
Like we will make it easier for people
to
to use our models, but part of the value
of building on like these models is that
you can then implement like what matters
most for users, right?
Um so, if you use something better like
easier to work with like the interaction
API that we're slowly shifting towards,
um you can focus a lot less on like the
core agent logic, maybe even the core
agent loops, I don't know. All right? Or
however it changes, you can instead
focus on the other things that matter
for your business like finding users,
getting valuable feedback, understanding
what to build. And so, I think um
a lot of it would just be
um the models will get better. Um
Oh, and then the model APIs will get
better. But then that just means that
you have more time to focus on what
matters to you, which is building an
application that you're really
passionate about. Um I hope that And the
other thing is yeah, that does answer it
very well. I I think also adopting
whatever frameworks and SDKs that
abstract over the things you don't want
to think about and don't want to look at
is is super important. On top of that,
just to be frank, like
I've built agents and consulted people
built agents and told people who've
built agents with
Claude SDK for example, and then updates
have broken what they uh wanted to do
and what they
what they [clears throat] were doing. Um
and if you want to fall back to
different providers, that's not
necessarily a a solved problem with with
these SDKs. So, we're still it's still
very early days. Now, adopting provider
SDKs is is what we we want to do, but I
but I do think being mindful about it.
It isn't as easy as saying they they
know what they're doing, so we should
just blindly follow.
Yeah, I I think so. I It's like I think
it depends on what is the amount of
engineering capacity you have and what
do you want to use for a library and
what do you not, right? It's like at the
end of the day you could also implement
your entire agent framework in like C++,
>> [laughter]
>> I think that's always an option, but
then you miss out on a lot of the good
tooling that's been built out in either
like JavaScript, TypeScript, or say like
you know, the Python ecosystem that
helps to deal with a lot of these
problems.
Um if let's say you're a one-man shop,
maybe the solution is to use something
like Pydantic AI where you have very
like strong e-type um
SDKs, you have a very good like
understanding of like you can switch
between the between different models,
you can use the Pydantic like gateway.
Um and I kind of I think it kind of
depends on what what is your current
like priority and what are the things
that what are the what's the bandwidth
that you have at the end of the day.
Yeah.
Awesome. Thank you for all that context
and and clarity. And particularly with
like all the stuff you're building at at
Manas, these are things you you thought
through very deeply.
Yeah, I think at Manas we were
unfortunately uh forced to roll our own
uh framework because we were just so far
ahead. I think like we just had they
weren't really like very strongly
established frameworks, I guess, at the
point. Um so, we were also using our own
bespoke framework at the point. But you
know, I think it really depends on like
what
you are working on and who is working,
like what kind of capacity you have.
Yeah.
All right? Um
I guess I can continue. Uh is my stream
still working?
Okay, cool. Awesome. I was just waiting
for a moment. I didn't hear like a
response or some sort of audio or
anything.
>> I was like, oh, it didn't break, but
>> No, I I was focusing on the Discord,
actually. Oh, okay. Okay. Cool. Cool. Um
I think um let's try to finish. Uh so,
now we have four.
Then we can look at hooks, creating an
agent, and then I think once we finish
that portion, we can take some questions
and we can think a bit about sub-agents,
etc.
Um okay. So, let's dive in, I guess. Uh
so,
right now what we're going to do is
we've actually changed a chunk of our
code, and the reason for this is that um
we want to just
abstract more and more logic into the
agent runtime. And so, we're going to
have like four distinct portions, right?
First one is we're just going to be
showing you how you can now have this
concept of like state. And we talked
about previously how state is a really
useful abstraction for you to store
things like um does user specific
permissions, does user have some sort of
data that you need to use to determine
like what the executed tool will do. Um
and I guess in this case we have the
maximum number of iterations and also
the maximum number of like to-dos.
So,
we have a pretty simple piece of code
over here. Um
we have some defensive logic where if
let's say this tool doesn't exist, then
we're just going to tell the model,
"Hey, um this tool is is an unknown
tool."
And then if let's say some specific
arguments missing like due to model
provider issues, um then we just say,
"Hey, it didn't include arguments,
right?" And then we try to validate it
um
using Pydantic because we do have
these arguments listed that we expect as
a Pydantic base model, and so it's
relatively easy. And so, if the
arguments are invalid, then we're going
to go for invalid arguments provided.
And then once we finish it all, we're
going to say tool.handler where we
define a handler, right? Going back to
tools,
uh what you see over here is that
you know, we're going to just be
essentially
we've
uh
uh let me just modify some of these.
Okay, cool. So, remember for every
single tool that we have, we have a set
of handlers. In this case, a read file,
and over here we have a modified to-do.
All right? And we want to basically tell
the model what is the result of this
tool that you've asked us to execute. Um
in the event that it's a tool that
doesn't exist, in the event that it's a
tool that um the arguments are wrong for
some reason, um often times we can just
tell the model like, "Hey, um you've
called the wrong tool." And so, I think
like having some sort of um defensive
coding around like a lot of your
um agent harnesses is quite important
because
uh you can often have a lot of these
issues. Um so, good things to call out
here are things like Sentry and things
like
some sort of hotel telemetry. I
generally like open source standards. I
think they're easier to build around.
Um but it's entirely up to what your
stack is currently uh using. Yeah.
So, we pass in a reference to the run
state, and we add to-dos in the event
that we get more to-dos. And if we're
trying to remove it, then we just
validate to make sure that we have all
the necessary to-dos over here. All
right? So, how does this change the way
that our agent is now working?
Well, in the runtime, uh we can just
specify these tools, and it's pretty
straightforward for you to do so.
Uh that would just tell the model, "Hey,
first add a to-do to read the README
file, and then read the README file."
And then we're just going to keep
iterating as long as we have function
calls.
So, let's run agent.py and let's see how
it works.
So, the first iteration, the model this
is pretty fast.
Holy [__]
Um maybe let's ask it to do a bit more.
Read the README file and then write a
haiku at the end.
Uh make sure to check off check off all
of your to-dos by the end.
Cool.
Let's have it run again. So, you see
okay, in the first iteration count, um
it's running a bit, and then it would
just give the haiku. And so, the haiku
at the end was agent built itself from a
call to complex plans, Gemini guide
search.
It's the same sort of loop that we're
talking about just now where you have
this case where the agent can output uh
in this case the model can output two
different things. One is that it can
output like a completion, which is a
natural language response like what you
see over here when you have the text
field.
And another one is when you have a
function call field. In this case, it
removed the to-do because it had done
it, right?
And the results were that, you know, the
to-dos updated to this new set of no
to-dos.
Um
up here, you can see that it read the
README file, and
so, let's walk through this bit by bit.
So, at the first step when it got the
the task to say, "Hey, add a to-do to
read README.md and then read the README
file."
The first thing it did was actually to
add a to-do. And so, it added a to-do
called read a README.md file.
And this was what the model saw. To-dos
updated to read README.
On the second iteration,
uh cuz this README in mind, the model
then called this function call called
README.md. And the result was that we
just threw this whole chunk code in.
So, this is the entire um logic uh the
entire content of the README if you look
at it over here.
Once it read the README, it then
realized, "Okay, I'm done with this
to-do. Let me take it off, and let's
continue about my way."
So, it actually removed the README. I
removed the to-do.
So, the README was done.
So, the to-dos are now empty. And then
it output its response. And this is sort
of us getting to the first agent that
we're building where, you know, it's now
running in a loop. As long as there are
function calls, we're going to keep
letting it run.
And this is a really useful way for us
to be able to make our agent not just a
chatbot, but a agent that can go out and
interact with the world.
>> [snorts]
>> So,
what can we go where do we go from here?
One of the things that you probably want
to do when you're building any sort of
agent is that um you want to basically
execute some logic
at different parts of the whole life
cycle, right? And so,
we'll do so by using hooks. Um so, let
me just paste this in.
So, what changes for hook? Um I have a
I have a
>> hook is? Like why why why do we even
want to think about hooks? Cuz it is a
software principle that I think people
in ML and and data and AI don't
necessarily know so much about. Yeah, so
I think the concept of hook here is just
that a A of times we think about the
logic that we want to build out in our
agent, right? Um when the user sends a
message, you want to save it in the
database or let's say when the user
sends a message, you want to show some
sort of content filter
um in our app or let's say we want to
make sure that we save it in our
database when the agent responds. So,
hooks are basically saying that Oh, also
we did a nice example in our build build
um agents that build themselves build
your own open core um
like triggering a message to Telegram,
right? Yeah, precisely. When when
building uh an agent like that. Uh
that's a great example though because
actually like that's kind of what a hook
is, right? Um And I'm looking I'm going
to link to this I'm looking at our blog
post actually. We wrote when the agent
responds or calls a tool, we often want
to trigger other things, send a Telegram
message, log to an observability
platform like log fire, render pretty
output in the terminal, and and so on.
So, yeah. Yes, exactly. We want to do
that. And it's kind of this it's kind of
going to simplify a little bit about
what we're working on.
Um because uh all we need to do is
define these hooks and we're basically
able to do quite a fair bit.
Um so, we're just going to define an on
method that allows you to register like
functions to be called when different
things are being executed. And you'll
kind of see later when we want to do for
example like very nice rendering and
like rich uh hooks actually allows us to
do this too in a very like
clean and simple way.
Um we do actually kind of define some
logic over here
just because you know, it's a bit
when you prepare the request um you want
a bit more like logic you want this is
the only thing you want to run.
Um so,
but other than that everything else is
kind of the same. Um
so, why why do we have like prepare
request over here? And the reason for
that is that
if you look at the state of UI, we
actually have two things over here.
The first thing we have is the iteration
count and the second thing we do is the
to-do's.
Previously, we looked a lot at like the
to-do's showing how you can add and
remove to-do's from the iteration.
And
what we want to do over here is we just
want to basically just be able to
tell like you know, the model like hey,
if you've reached the maximum number of
iterations,
then
you want to basically just add a little
reminder at the end saying you've
reached the maximum number of
iterations, we summarize what you've
done and return your response.
And you realize that the tools are
actually going to be empty if that
happens. So, this is sort of like a
system reminder that we throw in. Um you
see this in a lot of these different
agent implementations where you try to
nudge the model in different ways and
these like very ephemeral messages that
are just appended at the end or you
modify some of the stuff that you send.
And so, it kind of depends on what works
the best. Um
in my case I've just appended a user
message that mimics what would happen if
let's say
the model had done like five iterations
and then I just say hey, so like hey
man, you got to stop.
And so,
that's all we do over here where we just
have like a certain fixed number of
iterations.
The rest of the logic is kind of the
same and if you look at a lot of tools,
um
we're just going to change this to
result. Uh we always return like a
dictionary with the word result um cuz
that's what the model is going to see.
And if you look at the agent of UI logic
over here, we're just going to basically
pass in
uh once you've done the execution, we're
just going to throw in this dictionary
over here.
So, I've just chosen to use result as a
very common um dictionary phrase. But
with the Genie SDK, you have the
flexibility to call whatever you want
and I think that gives it
pretty nice like property that I
actually like.
So, let's move on.
>> Ivan, we have a great question in the
chat quickly. Um
they said they may have missed it, but
do we have a system prompt? How you how
are we controlling the agent's behavior
such as write to do before do something,
check off to do's?
Yeah, I think um in this case like I've
actually not really used much of a
system prompt at the start. Um
I think um system prompts are really
useful and you should definitely use
them, but I just haven't added it at
this point in time. Uh I think the
example I really good like system
prompt.
I'd rather like a much longer one. If
you look at for example tools of UI
instead of my
Um you see that it's much longer because
we have this system prompt over here.
And so, I call it a I give it a name. I
say you're a deep research planner. Uh
when you use it provides a query, make
sure you clarify the scope. How do you
want to ask it most two times two times?
Then some general like tips around
that you should be polite, positive, and
helpful.
And what like tools you use at each
step.
Now, the second thing that we did over
here is we said that hey, for every
single topic, how do you want to handle
the task? How do you want to drop the
notes?
Source diversity, I think style of
citations, rabbit holes, etc.
And this is where you give a lot of
information for the model to basically
look at when it's writing its responses,
when it's writing its notes, etc.
Um I think you should
>> just add
Please go on and then I'll add add one
thing. Oh, no. I'm just saying like I
think you should try to keep your system
prompt a bit brief before you start
expanding it. Um a lot of times uh
you'll find that as you build
applications, especially with like a
large team, everyone's going to add in
like random [__] after a while.
Um and so, you want to kind of think
very carefully about what you want to
add in the system prompt.
Yeah, and you kind of want to gatekeep
up. You don't want people to have random
yolo access to just write to the system
prompt. I do sometimes encourage people
to see what they can do without a system
prompt and then add things as needed.
And I'll actually just show you one I'll
show you two things actually.
Um
Can
Let's just see this. I'll add this to
the stage.
Yeah, this is I've shared this. This is
the post I wrote on building a general
purpose Python agent and there's no
system prompt here at all, okay? And one
of the reasons I did that is to
demonstrate that you can get away I
wouldn't do this in production, but you
can get away without writing a system
prompt if your tools also have good
descriptions and writing and iterating
on good tool descriptions um is
incredibly important. Uh I also and I'll
link to this. This is uh the pie coding
agent. This is the system prompt for the
pie coding agent. You can see how short
and this is what open claw is based on,
right? Um built around. You can see
you're an expert coding assistant. You
help uh available tools, guidelines,
documentation, and that's it. And if you
compare that to, you know, claw's um
system prompt. This may actually I mean
it's so long. This is the diff. Um it
may take,
you know, like
I mean, this is wild, right? And of
course cuz claw is an enterprise
product, they, you know, have a lot of
things they they need there. But and
this is to your point, Ivan, about how
good the models are getting. The models
are getting so so good that
we actually in the end maybe write long
system prompts, but starting off
minimally can actually get you a huge
huge amount of the way. And that's all I
wanted to really
uh demonstrate that.
Yeah, no I totally agree. I think like a
lot of times um if the model can do it
out of the box, um
why write it in the system prompt? And
also I think like it's a good call out
now to like this idea of progressive
disclosure, which is a really like
complex word for saying that you should
let the model see the information if it
needs it and you should provide the
model with the ability to discover it.
For example, like if the model has a few
different tools or like functionality
that you want it to learn, like how do
you edit like a Google documents? How do
you like access your Google Drive?
Um instead of you pasting everything in
the system prompt
where let's say the user only asks one
question at a time. Like if the user's
going to ask questions like oh, what's
in my Google Drive?
Can you create a new Google Google Docs
for me? Can you modify Google Sheets so
the title is now um build your own deep
research agent with Ivan Leo.
Then
you don't need all that information in
the system prompt. You can have a skill,
right? And so, I think thinking about
context and managing it so that you
don't aggressively add things to the
system prompt is going to be a bit
better for you in the long run.
Um that totally makes sense. Yeah, so
this is the concept of like hooks like
what Hugo and I talked about just now
where basically with hooks um a lot of
the rendering logic can now be
abstracted out.
And so, what you see over here
is that
our rendering logic is now just entirely
expressed over here where at each
distinct step depending on what tool is
called, what sort of logic is being
expressed,
um you've been you can basically just
have
um this logic over here that's uh
simplified.
So,
now that we have this, let's see how we
can abstract a lot of the logic into
like a single agent.
Right? So, I'm just going to add these
two things.
Let's go up a little.
Oh.
Uh there we go.
So, [snorts]
this is the last part in the second
second uh portion where we're going to
talk about state hooks and agent loop,
but previously we had like a while true
loop that was a bit complicated to
manage. We're just going to take that
and bring it inside of the agent. And
so, we're going to define a function
called run until idle.
And so, what run until idle will do,
that's what changed from the previous
one to this one is that
you know, basically for run until idle,
we're going to just keep iterating for
as long as we need to.
And we're going to iterate for as long
as the
model is calling function calls.
Now, previously we talked about how
to-do's are a great way to sort of
ground the model in some sort of logic.
And
the way that we can actually force a
model to
basically
add like a
to to finish all the to-do's, you
actually just define a dot is incomplete
method. Um what I've chosen to do over
here is that it either returns a string
reminder or none. So, you can think of
let's say for example,
you have a model that uh you can say
like oh, you've run out of token budget.
You can maybe append at the end like oh,
you have like 4,000 tokens left, 2,000,
1,000, right? Um and and these like
small reminders depending on what
application you're building might
actually be quite useful.
Uh in this case over here what I've
chosen to do is just
if the model tries to get to the end
without ticking off all of its to-do's,
I'm just going to force it to go for
another round. And you can start to see
how you can start implementing a lot of
deterministic checks in your agent
harness without actually um relying on
like a prompt. I think a a prompt is a
really useful thing, and especially as
models get better, um you can honestly
have less of these deterministic checks.
But
while we're still waiting for these
models to get like significant to get
better and like improve over time, but
it's not a bad idea to think a lot about
these like small deterministic checks,
right?
Let's just take a look at this. Um
Here it and let's run it again.
So, now we have a agent with to-do's.
So, let's say, "Can you read the
readme.md
file and then
uh let's
and then tell me what it says, right?"
So, now the model is actually going to
add the to-do's.
It's going to read the readme file.
Give it a little time.
It's read the file over here, so you can
see that now it's done and it's ticked
off all its to-do's and
it basically went for another round
because it hadn't ticked off all the
to-do's. If you look at what happened up
here, it still had two more like read
readme.md and then it was forced it was
forced to go for another round. So, this
is where like a system prompt might be
very useful because you can tell it
things like, "Hey, I want you to read
and tick off all of your to-do's." Add
in another layer of deterministic checks
to make sure that the to-do's are
essentially like removed. And then once
you've done that, you actually allow the
model to finish its turn.
Um and so I think this is quite
important when you think about building
out your agent because you want to think
a lot about like what are the checks
that you have.
Um
back when you're writing if you're
writing a lot of code, you know, you
need things like unit tests. You want
things in production like try-catches.
Um I think of this kind of like the same
thing. Um you want to mix of different
guardrails. Whether it's the output that
your model is throwing out and the kind
of like
conditions for you to stop the model.
Like for example, if it detects that
it's going to like a loop, then maybe
you want to stop it there. Um stuff like
this can be implemented
deterministically, and this is an
example of where a system prompt might
have been quite useful to have along
with it cuz that's why it went like
twice.
It had to call like the remove to-do
method and then it went through the
whole loop again. Um so, this is
the end of our first part where we
talked about second part where we talked
about state hooks and the agent loop. Uh
we're going to be
trying to cover as much as we can be
letting it loose of agent planning
observability, but I wanted to sort of
stop here to see whether there are any
sort of questions.
We've got a couple of great questions.
Um and it's a it's a good time to uh to
take them. We have a cool
[clears throat] question from Conrad
that I'll I'll I'll get to in a second,
but I just want to give a sho- a
shout-out to Conrad who he's taking our
building AI applications course at the
moment. He's been building frantically,
and he actually um I let him know about
Gemini file search, and we introduced
the course to to Modal cuz they're
they're sponsoring it, and he actually
spent an hour mixing Gemini file search.
Those who don't know, Gemini file search
is actually a really powerful managed
rag retrieval system where you throw in
your docs, you can specify your chunk
and what whatever you want essentially,
and it gives you an API. So, he mixed uh
Gemini file search with Modal and Gradio
to get a private knowledge base up and
running um in an hour, and is now
thinking about evals, maybe changing out
to Streamlit, making sure it works with
math math-heavy resources, and this type
of stuff. Um and he has a great
question. Um if you could elaborate just
a bit more on the defensive logic in
terms of what methods, tools, uh
libraries um
you'd encourage people to check out and
the usefulness of Pydantic AI. And I'll
I'll just say one thing, Pydantic AI
actually has so many different parts to
it that you don't necessarily have to
talk about all of them, r- right?
Uh yeah, I think the beauty of using
like Pydantic AI is just that um it's
probably one of the few agent frameworks
that tried it. Normally I roll my own
thing.
So, I think like that might be like a
bit of a problem, but um I will say
though like I think Pydantic AI is
written by the Pydantic team, and I
generally do trust the taste of that
team a lot.
Um and you know, I I I like it. I think
the few times I've tried it it's worked
without any sort of glitches, and it
works natively with um
Logfire.
Um in terms of like defensive stuff, I
would say that the there are
I kind of think of it in two ways. One
is you want to look at like historical
data. Um going back to your example of
like, "Hey, I have a Gemini file
search." Um and then Modal and Gradio,
um
you might say for example, for some user
queries, what is the cosine similarity
between the query and the sort of like
results that are being returned, right?
How similar they are in the embedding
space.
Then you might find that okay, if I if I
want to have say
relevant queries, maybe I'm I'm just
going to get my model to do a second
pass through, right? Or I'm just going
to get the model to check these
historical queries to see whether or not
the I'm using the right embedding model
for example. These are like small checks
you can add at the end and like once the
query has been made and the agent has
responded, right? Um another thing you
can do is like as the agent is like
running, um deterministic checks are
often useful when you have like open
telemetry running, and you kind of know
like where the model gets like trapped.
So, for example, if let's say you're
using a model that tends to get into a
loop where it says like, "Oh, like once
it sees like this specific set of
words." Or once it's
once you detect like all of the chunks
that are streaming out, the last like 10
chunks or the five last five chunks are
like roughly the same,
uh then you should stop the response
there and just evict like this message
from memory. And that's like a defensive
thing that you can do by seeing what you
have in production.
Um a lot of times I think you are
limited um by what sort of data you
capture and what sort of um
things you're looking out for. And so I
think it's very important to start when
you're building your own agent frame
when you're building like your own
agents, think about like
how can I find problems that I might
face in production? Uh is there some
sort of logging that I have out of the
box for this? Um you can use whatever
you want. I generally
um happy using Logfire. Um they have
also a nice evals package out of the
box.
Um but I I think it's just use whatever
you're comfortable with. Um but I will
say the most important thing is just you
have to be logging things and checking
them um in post-production uh not
post-production, like you need to be
checking them on a regular basis,
looking at your data, making sure that,
you know, if you see that a lot of
conversations you're having perhaps are
a bit more sensitive, um very they have
a lot of private data, uh then perhaps
you might want to have a small like
language model as a judge
that you just look at that just make
sure that if the conversation gets a bit
like tricky, maybe you want to just
sound the alarm. Um but these are quite
difficult questions I think to deal
with. But most important thing is you
must be able to log them in order for
you to deal with them. Yeah. Uh Ivan,
I'd really have to find myself if I
didn't ask you and I I appreciate you
can't give away any secret sauce, but is
there anything you can tell us
specifically about how you approach
these things at Manifold when building
out agents there?
Uh I think
I think Manifold we had a really good
team. Um so, but I will say like one of
the most important things for me that
made a difference when building agents
was this idea of meta prompting.
Um really what you want is like to look
at what the model where the model is
messing up, and then you can ask the
model questions given the conversation
history you save. Or why did you make
this decision? You can go back, you can
edit, you can replace certain states. Um
and I think like that's pretty
important. Like the logging forms
infrastructure for you to experiment
fast. And I think like whether it's at
Manifold or anywhere else, like being
able to experiment quickly, being able
to identify like issues um in production
quickly is very important. Yeah, and
that's something you should be thinking
about once you get a working prototype,
you know.
Awesome. [snorts] Um we've got a another
great question uh with respect to I've
got there's so much cool action in the
Discord. I'm just like
um Seth Tan. Welcome back, Seth Tan.
Seth Seth comes to a lot of our live
streams and and workshops. Always great
to have you here, Seth. What about using
a model like Qwen 3.5 35B um if you want
to do local stuff, less likely to have
tooling fall apart since it's not
updated randomly like sort of providers
do. I agree and disagree. I I think
tool calling
with sort of providers even when it
falls apart is better than most local uh
open weight tool calling currently. I
actually think 2026 will be a year of
tool calling getting mad with open open
weight models. We're going to see um
huge um
developments there. Um and I do think if
you have a good reason to use open
weight models, do, but they're currently
like 6 months give or take plus plus
behind frontier lab closed models. So,
that can be a lot of performance, but
Ivan, do you do you play around much
with with with open weight models? And
as Seth talking about 35B, of course you
can the beefier system you have, the
more you can run as well.
Um I think there's definitely a time and
place for local models. For example,
like if you work on stuff that's a bit
more private, um you might have
requirements for like on-prem
deployments. Or in your case like you
want something local. Um the main
problem with using a local model is that
you don't benefit from the frequent
updates of a lot of the state of the a
lot of these sort of providers, um
especially as we upgrade and train our
models and find fixes. Um second thing
is you don't need to own inference,
which is quite an expensive thing to
own.
So, for example, like if let's say
you're using Qwen 35B, I think it works
great, but let's say you want to extend
it and you have like a lot of context,
it tends to slow down quite a lot even
if you have a very beefy local machine.
Um but if you say for example use
something like Gemini, the KB caching is
optimized, right? We have very good um
sort of latencies when it comes to
responses. Um you saw just now basically
how when you ran like Gemini 3 flash
preview, the model was basically like so
speedy that it felt like it was
streaming right in. There
it was so speedy that the responses felt
like they were streaming right in.
And so I think a lot of these things,
especially if you're building your
initial prototypes, are quite important.
Uh you can decide uh what matters to
you, but I personally have found that
when I'm building like prototypes and
I'm trying different things,
I don't really want to own inference.
And I think like building on top of
providers like, for example, Gemini,
um tend to be a good call because um
you don't have to own inference. I think
inference is an incredibly important
thing. A very tricky thing to own, yeah.
Totally.
All right. Um let's let's move on and we
can have more questions after the
the next section. Sure. Um I think I'm
just going to skip like uh seven. I'm
just going to go straight to like
beautifying the outputs. Uh so we can
kind of see our first sub-agents in
play.
Uh so let's
let's see our first few sub-agents. Uh
clear this.
And let's go to agent and then app.py.
All right. And so what we're going to do
now is going to say, for example, "Can
you look up uh for me what is the
current GDP
uh GDP? Hmm, GDP of California?"
"What is the current revenue of like
California and how it's changed
from 2023 to now?"
And so let's let it run for a bit.
Um you can see it started the to-dos,
but now we actually have sub-agents that
are running.
So as the sub-agents are spinning up, um
what the main agent is doing is that
it's actually creating these search
queries.
And these sub-agents are basically
running like what we talked about
before, right? They have access to the
search web from Exa.
And based on whatever they found, they
basically then create a they write a
final report. And then this gets passed
over to the main agent, who then take
this information and then
decide, "Do I check up my to-dos? Do I
continue checking? Um do I continue
searching?" And in this case like it's
chosen to go for another round, right?
And this is basically our first taste of
what a sub-agent can do.
Um I'm going to let it run for a bit and
then we're going to look at the code.
So what exactly is happening over here?
Well, what we've done is that we
basically
created a new tool called
delegate_search.
And this is the tool that's being used
to create these sub-agents over here.
So with these sub-agents running, you
can see that as of March 2026,
California's revenue has seen a
significant
recovery and growth.
And we have, you know, all of this
information provided out of the box
for you, right? Um and this is really
useful because you can delegate a lot of
this, right? So let's see the
delegate_search tool.
Um
So what we have now are three agents.
One is an agent that has read_file,
modify_todo, and delegate_search. And we
have a system instruction now, which
says that, "You know, when the user asks
for web research or current information,
use delegate_search."
And
the way we're doing that is that in
app.py,
um when we actually, you know, activate
a sub-agent, per se,
um all we're doing is essentially
creating an instance of this agent up
here, where we specify that the run
config should have a max of two.
Uh we provided a agent context where we
actually have Exa.
And then
you are basically going to have
sub-agents. And And then you you pass in
a reference over here to a live panel in
Rich. So a lot of what you saw just now,
where, you know, you were printing out
the query, then you saw search web, the
query, search web, the query, um what it
is is basically under the hood we're
using a library called Rich, and we can
actually update like these panels in the
in the terminal.
And this is kind of really useful
because we're starting to see the first
few uh hints, our first few steps, where
we have like a sub-agent that's
essentially running
pretty well.
And so I think um
the code is over here, where you see
that, you know, if let's say it calls
search web, then we're just going to
update this specific panel. So you saw
like how you had the table and you had
these three individual rows.
And then
you can do a lot of this by you
basically using hooks.
Like what we saw just now, like it's the
same thing. It's you have an agent that
calls tools. That tool spins up its own
agents.
It spins up and then all these agents
are basically at one point they
dispatch, they're running their own like
inference queries.
When things change in their overall
state, their context, um then what you
do is you basically just
grab that information and then pull it
back. Yeah. And then you update this
live table.
Uh this is sort of like the cool thing
that we were looking at just now, where,
you know,
oh. Yeah. All these queries are
basically running in sub-agents with
their own contexts and their own
prompts. And all they return to the main
agent is essentially just
a like, "Here's the final report that I
have."
Um so this is our first taste of like
what a sub-agent is.
So how can we go from this to let's say
like a deep research query? And maybe
you can just say a bit more about
why we even want to use things like
sub-agents, especially with respect to
context, I Yeah, for sure. I think um
what you find a lot as you build like
more and more complex uh applications,
especially ones that are looking across
like a whole bunch of like these like
data sets or like how very complex like
things, um is that you're going to find
basically um
there's going to be more context that
you can do
than you can deal with. So as a result,
I think like it's going to be quite um
difficult to basically manage it all.
And so sub-agents uh
are a way for
you to basically ensure that um instead
of your model having to deal with like
all of these complex like bits and
parts,
um you can basically allow your your
agent to basically go like, "Okay. I'm
going to use smaller language model, a
cheaper one." In this case we're using
cheaper one flash to read a lot of this
information, and then cheaper one pro to
do a lot of orchestration. And you can
basically start seeing that cheaper one
pro's context will only contain the
clean information of the written reports
at the end with the right citations. And
that's what you saw in like the overall
trace.
And so that's kind of why you want to
use uh sub-agents. Uh a common way
common like term that we're seeing is
like recursive language models, where
language models are basically being
trained. You can they're provided with
tools where they can call like other
language models or they can run Python
scripts and they can only see like the
final results.
Because if I have a large data set,
maybe what I want my model to do is
basically be able to run like Pandas and
see like snippets of it, run filters on
the overall thing.
These are all things that sub-agents are
very useful for because they can
preserve the main agent's context.
Um that's kind of why you want to use
sub-agents here, yeah.
Awesome. And just on that note, I have
linked to a podcast I did with Brian
Bischoff, who's uh colleague and friend
of both myself and Ivan, and um it's a
conversation in which we really talk
about that sub-agents can be a useful
term, but they're also really just
tools, right?
For sure, for sure. Yeah. So I think
like that's that's basically it. And
then you look at uh for example, the
next portion, where we're generating a
plan, um what changes from this step to
the other is that we introduce this idea
of like
phases. Uh so if you look at state over
here, now we have this thing called a
a mode.
Um
and so
basically
what changes is that we have a
get_tools, um prepare_request. Yeah,
prepare_request over here.
And so what you have is just that you
have a bunch of tools,
which are planning tools and executing
tools, and then we just swap them based
on like what is active or what's not,
depending on the mode.
And so all we do is that at the end, um
once we finish like a tool call,
um if let's say we have a
um I think the handle [clears throat]
over here, um if I remember correctly,
it's inside the
uh
generate_plan_handle.
And so
once you've done this, we just change
the mode of the current run state to be
basically um
execute. And so it goes from a plan
state to a run state. And then you can
basically go from like you you'll go
from asking your questions like, "Oh,
like if you want to find out about
California's GDP, are you interested in
like official state figures or do you
want like me to look into like
economist reports, etc.?" So
this is like I think a pretty cool and
simple example of how you can like swap
the tools on demand, depending on what
needs to be done. So, yeah.
I think like we've run out of time. I I
actually got to bounce, but um all the
code is available online. Uh I'll be
releasing a blog series after this that
has a walk-through of all the code
snippets and some of the ideas we talked
about. I think Hugo will probably do the
same. And so um if you have any
questions, you drop in Discord. I think
Hugo and me will try our best answering.
Hugo and I will try our best answering,
yeah.
Amazing. Thank you so much, Ivan. I was
actually just about to link to your
website and and blog. Uh you do have a
sign-up form for your newsletter. I
encourage you everyone to jump in and
get updates from Ivan, particularly as
dude, I mean, once again,
congratulations on your new job at at
DeepMind, which you started
earlier this week. Can't wait to see
what you do there with the team.
Congratulations on the move to America
as as well. Um
on top of that, like
so thank you everyone for joining, but
Ivan, always thank you for coming and
sharing your wisdom and expertise with
the community, but even more so, having
done all this prep, knowing that you
were like you've been just starting a
new job, moving to America from from
Singapore, so big props um and gratitude
to you
as as well. Um please do um follow Ivan
on all platforms, Ivan Leo. Uh do
subscribe to Vanishing Gradients on
Substack, on Luma. Like and subscribe on
YouTube. Like these are the ways, share
with friends, the best ways you can
support um
this type of independent AI, ML, data
science education is sharing it. The
more people engage, um the more that we
can we can do this and support this. Any
final things um you'd like people to
check out, Ivan? Uh yeah. I mean, um the
blog article will come up probably over
the weekend. Um you know, as usual,
follow us, follow
the Gemini, the Google DeepMind team on
on Twitter. We're releasing a lot of
updates. Um we're trying our best to
make Gemini great. And uh try the
interaction with the API and let us know
what you think and we hope you like it.
Yeah.
Awesome. All right. Thanks everyone once
again and most of all, thank you Ivan
for doing yet another fun fun workshop.
It's always fun to work with you, man.
Yeah. Thanks, man. Thanks for having me.